All right.
So at the end of the previous lesson, we made a shocking discovery.
We observed that we could not see our new hero component visibly on the screen because it was hidden
behind our fixed header.
Okay.
Now, as I warned you at the very beginning of the course, I am not access expert and I'm sure there
is a more optimal solution to this problem.
But I want to show you how I solved this problem using what we know about view.
And that will also allow us to introduce some new view concepts, specifically as it deals with classes.
So what we can do, or one solution that we can apply in order to push this main element down, which
is the hero component, is we can apply a fixed height to our header element right here.
The header element right here is the one that wraps everything in our NAV and our sub now.
So let me just show you in the browser, I'm going to select this header element right here and I'm
just going to apply a manual fixed height of let's say 150 pixels.
And you'll notice what happens is if I hover my mouse now, I can see that 150 pixel box specified by
my height, and that will push the content or any other content further down.
So now you can see that my main appears right here.
Here is our I Can Be Your Hero Baby text and that is 150 pixels down from the top because our header
is pushing it down that number of pixels.
Now here's where things get really interesting.
Let's say we wanted to follow the same approach and we wanted to push down our our main content a certain
number of pixels.
Right.
And we know that this height right here is 64 pixels.
So we might say something like find the Tailwind class that represents a height of 64 pixels and apply
it.
And that should push this down 64 pixels.
So it would look something like this.
Let me just hardcoded 64 pixels here in browser and it would look like that and that's exactly what
we want.
However, we run into a little problem when we introduce the sub nav.
So let me go ahead and apply the sub nav and you'll see that now the sub nav is going to hide our main
content, which is right here.
Our content is successfully pushed down 64 pixels, but this sub nav is now overlaying it, right?
So we kind of have an interesting conditional circumstance where if we just have our primary NAV and
we do not have a sub nav, then pushing the main content down at 64 pixels is totally fine.
However, if we do have a sub nav, what we want to do is push it down 128 pixels because our main nav
is 64 and our sub nav is 64.
So that is a total of 128 pixels.
So if I change this to 128, we are going to get what we want right here.
That's what we want, but that's what we want only when we have a sub nav.
So we have a little bit of conditional logic.
But luckily, just like our profile image and our subnet, this bit of conditional logic is something
that is dependent on the user's logged in status, which we are tracking.
So let's go ahead and see how we can create something like this automatically using view.
So I'm going to transition back to this code and the component that I actually want to open is called
Main now.
All right.
And here I want to create a computed property and I'll explain all of my logic, or rather it'll come
together over time.
But let's begin with creating a computed property.
Right now, this component doesn't have any computed properties, so I have to create that property.
In my view, configuration object and the S.
Led Style Guide prefers that we place it between our data method and our methods object.
So right here I'm going to add my computed property.
We played around with this earlier in the course, but on a different component.
And here as a reminder, we define methods and I'm going to call my method header height class and just
like when we worked with this the previous time, what I want this method to return is an object.
And just like the last time the keys in this object, the properties are going to be six classes and
the values are going to be booleans that reflect whether that class should or should not be applied.
True means apply, false means do not apply.
And what I'm going to do here is actually use tailwind CSS as classes.
So there is a Tailwind CSS class called H 16 and that creates a height of 64 pixels.
So when do I want to have a header height of 64 pixels?
This is when I only have the primary nav and when I do not have the sub nav.
Right.
64 pixels will cover just one of those.
And we're focusing on the main navigation menu.
So when are we only showing the main navigation menu when the user is not logged in, when the page
initially loads.
So we have access as you may recall, to our data properties.
Right here.
And we have this property called is locked in.
So what I can do is say when the user is not logged in, which means the inverse of is logged in.
Well, give me the Boolean that reflects whether I should apply this class, which is age 16, which
represents 64 pixels.
This can be a little bit confusing, but hopefully it makes more sense when I provide the second class
here, which is age 32.
So age 32 is a tailwind class that declares a height of 128 pixels.
When do we want 128 pixels?
When the user is logged in.
Because when the user is logged in, we want to show the primary NAV at 64, the sub nav at another
64 for a total of 128 pixels that we want to add as a height to create separation from our hero.
So we know that when the user is logged in, this is logged in, which will be true when the user is
logged in.
When the user is logged in, we know we will have a sub nav.
So we want a total of 128 pixel height for our header, 64 for our primary nav and 64 for our sat nav.
So hopefully that makes sense.
But we haven't actually widening anything up yet.
We just have this computed class.
So I want to scroll back up and I want to add this height to our header.
We just did this in the browser manually in Chrome.
I just hardcoded those pixel values as you may recall, 150, 64, 128 We did the same idea here, but
we have an interesting scenario where we already have some hardcoded tail and classes here w full for
width and text sem for small text.
But now we want to add our computed class, which is an object and there is actually a syntax in view
that supports both of these options.
So the first thing I'm going to do is to use my V bind syntax.
So I'm going to bind to this class attribute.
And as a reminder, we can do either this or this.
And then what I'm actually going to provide here is an array and we can just write it inline within
our double quotes because remember when we use V bind, Vue is smart enough to understand that we are
not using a string, we're using an array.
And the first values in my arrays are going to be the strings representing the classes that I always
want to have.
So the two classes that we just remove from here were w doubtful and text dash.
So, all right.
So by simply creating an array and binding it to class, what I'm saying is these classes go ahead and
always apply them no matter what.
Right.
Now, of course, this syntax is a lot more confusing than simply having class and writing two of those
classes in line.
So this is not a better approach than what we just had.
The advantage of this approach is in this array we can also provide the name of any computed property
we want.
And so here is where I can reference this computed property of header height class.
So I'm just going to write it in line and we'll talk more about it.
We do not need to surround this in quotes, so we're going to write header high class.
So to reiterate what is going on here.
These are strings representing Tailwind CC's classes that will always be applied in comparison.
Header high class is a computed property, which is really a method that's going to return a a JavaScript
object.
And Vue is actually pretty flexible.
So it's totally fine if we give it a array here with two strings and a JavaScript object, it's just
going to do the exact same thing.
It's always done.
It's going to look at this object and say, which classes are in this object?
Which properties have a value of true?
And I'm always going to are only going to apply those.
So in other words, we're always going to get this, this and whatever classes here have a boolean value
of true.
So for example, when this component first loads is logged in is going to be set to false, which means
the 16 property here is the only one that's going to have a value of true.
That means that view is going to apply age 16 here as well as w fall as well as text.
So when the value of the is logged in property switches to True View reruns or re calculates the computed
property.
So now this is going to be equal to true, which means the only property in this object that has a value
of true is H 32, which means Vue will apply age 32 right here and text esim and W4.
So these are constants and these are conditionals based on a property that we have configured in our
computed object.
All right.
Pretty complex idea, but hopefully it makes sense what we're doing here.
I know the syntax can be a little bit tricky, but this should actually do it.
So if I go back to my browser now, save this work.
When the page loads, the user is not logged in.
So because the user is not logged in, we apply the age 16 class which applies 64 pixels of height to
this had an element.
I can show that to you right here by selecting it.
And you can see here they had a now has that age 16 class alongside the two that are always going to
be present.
Right.
And then as soon as I click the sign in button we flipped the value of that is logged in property to
true which forces this class to change to age 32.
Because remember the computed property re computes view gets a new object so it knows to look at the
header class and where we've bound that data to this HTML attribute attribute class so it knows to swap
it.
You'll see that the first two classes still remain, but now we have 32 and because we now have that
Tailwind class providing 128 pixels of height, we can now push down.
I can be our hero baby to here.
So once again, to show you this in action, we now see our hero when we have a regular primary nav
and when we sign in, we can see the hero as well when we have our Somnath.
All right.
Hopefully this has been a lot of fun.
This was definitely an interesting problem for me to tackle with view, but I will see you in the next
lesson.